The Project Gutenberg eBook of A good old scout
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: A good old scout

Author: Theodore Seixas Solomons

Release date: November 7, 2024 [eBook #74698]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: Street & Smith Corporation

Credits: Roger Frank and Sue Clark


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A GOOD OLD SCOUT ***



A GOOD OLD SCOUT

By Theodore Seixas Solomons

By the author of “Two Stirs Forward--Three Back,” Etc.


It was a question of sentiment--which had the more genuine, the
old-timer or the more modern prospector. When a rich haul of gold was at
stake, which man would cast aside his finer feelings and become a
heartless grabber?

“It’s a land a-flowin’ with milk and money,” quoted old “Nock” Whipple,
in a high and hopeful voice, “Jest as the Good Book says. Only the
conditions is different. You got ter stew down the berries to git the
honey--and it’s some puckery. Fer the milk--why, jest catch a caribou or
a cow moose.”

He turned his gaunt frame on his elbow to laugh, his gray-bearded head
and hollow neck emerging from the dingy blankets of his bed on the
bough-strewn floor of the tent. His merriment ended in a fit of
coughing.

“Get back under there, old scout!” admonished McAdams severely, striding
to him and giving the blankets a jerk into place. “And shut up. You talk
too much!” He shoved a stick or two of wood into the battered sheet-iron
stove--a fortunate pick-up of the afternoon before, relic of a winter
camp of earlier prospecting days.

“Don’t be so harsh to him, Aleck,” said a third man reprovingly. He was
sitting in the corner, hunched over a diary or memorandum book of some
sort, in which he was industriously writing.

“Aw, I know how to handle the old guy,” returned McAdams good-naturedly,
as he slipped through the tent flap, bent on cutting stove wood for the
night. The prospect without was a dreary one.

The pleasant, springlike summer of the Far North had ended weeks before,
and the fall, brief precursor of the long and hard, white time, had
already painted the few deciduous shrubs into danger signals, giving to
the dun landscape of the arctic highland that little warmth of color the
year knew. Rock and moss filled the near vistas of the landscape, its
stream valleys of low relief and intricate contours marked by pencilings
of fringing willows, with a hint, southward, of spruce forests where
hazy patches of the hue of faded indigo revealed the lower reaches of
the Porcupine, most northern tributary of the mighty Yukon.

The three had been out all summer on a prospecting trip through that
far, unmapped region of Alaska--Enoch Whipple, pioneer Montanan, pioneer
Alaskan, leading on the last of his once stout legs; Aleck McAdams, for
some years his friend and occasional companion; and Mr. Alfred Lawrence
Turner, a thirty-year-old mining engineer, rather down on his luck. It
was a scoured watershed country--eroding to a new “base level,” as
Turner put it, with little of the older gravels left. But old Nock
Whipple had told them as much, though, in different language. What
hadn’t been washed away, old pals had said, was sometimes gold bearing.
A “pockety” country, hard to get to, and the pockets too rare to tempt
any but bold men desperate for a grubstake.

Outside of the tent lay two pack saddles, canvas bags, a few prospecting
tools. On the bare slope of the stream valley, two old mules, that had
been sleek enough some months before, but were now skin-covered
skeletons, browsed philosophically on frost-dried herbage.

McAdams browsed for dead willow sticks in drift litter under the banks
of the creek. From the tent, hastily pitched the afternoon before, when
Enoch Whipple’s legs had succumbed to the weakness of fever, came the
droning sound of the old scout’s voice, high, almost senile, as he
“knocked” the country to which he had gone, years before, yet too late
in life for a chance to win--and probably lose again--another fortune in
the West and Northwest. McAdams, between his cracking of sticks,
listened with a quizzical smile, to the old man’s ravings.

“Yes, she’s a land o’ gold, all right, Alfred. Klondike, Forty-Mile,
Nome, Fairbanks, Iditarod. Fortunes made. Millions of ’em. Well, anyhow,
a dozen or two. Natcherly, a few of us didn’t get nothin’--leastways a
million or two of us didn’t. The hull country was covered with gold, the
papers said, when the old Klondike strike was boomin’--covered with gold
like an old carpet with dust, they told us.

“I ’member a feller camped near us at Split-up Island at the mouth of
the Stewart. He was playin’ a lone hand. Had a big awk’erd skiff loaded
with s’plies--funniest junk you ever see. Hunnerd and five different
articles o’ grub, he told us. One I ’member was _manioca_--somethin’
like that. Kinder cousin to tapioca, he says. Build yer up. Great stuff.
He was a big, six-foot counterjumper from Kansas City or some’eres.
Growed a beard to look like a sure-enough Western man. An’ every day
while we was all splittin’ up, this guy--they called him Willie--would
set up a little lookin’-glass against a tree and comb out his whiskers
and slick up his long, wavy, brown hair.

“One mornin’ he ’pears on the river bank with a pack sack on his
shoulders, loaded down with bacon an’ _manioca_ and sich. He was
startin’ to locate his claim. Where was he goin’, with the Klondike a
hunnerd miles off yet? ‘Why,’ says he, ‘I’m a-goin’ up some creek
anywheres,’ says he, ‘before we gets too close to Dawson where the crowd
must ’a’ staked everything. I’m a-goin’ ter locate me a reg’lar claim.
I’ll take out enough for to git me home and show the folks the gold, and
then I’m a bringin’ in some of ’em--mother, mebbe, too--and we’ll work
her out, and back to old Kansas City,’ he says, just like that!”

Old Whipple turned on his elbow for another laugh--and a coughing spell.

“Keep under your blankets, Whipple,” admonished Turner, merely pausing a
moment in his note-making. “And don’t laugh like that, my good man. Bad
for you and nerve-racking to me.”

“Just like that,” repeated old Whipple, when he got his breath. “As easy
as fallin’ off a lawg. Whole country was covered with gold. All you had
to do was find a piece of it without stakes on--and that was easy, in
spite o’ fifty thousand stampeders. What did they amount to in a hunnerd
and fifty thousand million acres o’ wilderness, hey? Say, this Willie
was one of the guys that used to sing, ‘The Klondike Vale Tonight.’ Must
’a’ heered it on a boat comin’ up to Skag-a-way. Had a string thing like
a banjo or somethin’. Fine voice Willie had, too. An’ he’d bawl her out
in the evenin’ from his skiff moored to the bank. When the rag chewers
was through sawin’ their stoves in two, and gittin’ ready to sleep to
git new strength for quarrelin’ afresh in the mornin’, Willie would sing
it mournful--fer he sure believed the words:

    “In fur-away Alaska, whare the Yukon River flows,
    An’ the mighty boulders stand ’mid wealth and might,
    In a land o’ wealth untold, in a grave that’s decked with g-o-l-d,
    He’s sleepin’ _i-n_ th’ Klondike Vale to-night!”

Flushed, his faded, blue eyes shining in the deep sockets, old Whipple’s
laughter sounded again, like mirthless echoes in an empty cavern.

“‘In a grave that’s decked with gold!’ Never be _my_ luck, live or
dead!”

“Shut up, Nock!” McAdams appeared with an armful of slender, twisted
sticks. “Get yourself all het up, ye old fool!”

“No use abusing the old fellow,” remarked Turner. He had put the diary
aside and was perusing a small pocket volume of something. “Delirium, I
suppose,” he added in a lower voice. “Let him die in peace!”

“Aw,” McAdams muttered; “he’s all right. Tuckered out, tha’s all.” In a
louder voice: “Lay still, old scout, will yer? They ain’t much grub
left, and durn little game away up here. How we gonna get yer down to
the Yukon ’less you rest up so we kin start again in a day or two? Cut
out the gab!”

“Gosh, but you’re a rough devil, McAdams!” exclaimed Turner petulantly.
“Let him die in peace, can’t you?”

“He’ll hear yer, you durn fool!”

Turner scowled. Comrades though they were, and in a desperate plight, he
disliked the unwonted familiarity of the uncouth man more than he
objected to the slur.

“He won’t. He’s only hearing his own maudlin talk. Man, you’ve got no
heart, no sentiment!”

“Sentiment? What’s that?”

Turner shrugged.

“What you--haven’t got. Let him alone. Don’t nag him. It’s just a
question of hours.”

“I’m tryin’ to buck him up, tha’s all. Got to get him outer here purty
soon. Reckon we kin stick him on one mule by bunching what’s left of the
outfit an’ crowdin’ it on the other one.”

“Impossible,” decided Turner, frowning. “We’ll simply do what we can for
him till he--passes. Please speak to him kindly.” He turned again to his
handy volume of the classics.

McAdams seized a small-caliber rifle and went after ptarmigan, a sparse
few of which they had seen the day before in the bushlike willows of the
divide. Their plight for food was desperate. A bird or two would make
soup for the old man.

But Enoch Whipple was nearly beyond all help from food when the
middle-aged, “unsentimental” McAdams returned belatedly, the early dark
of the northern fall upon them. A couple of birds--already turning white
to meet the coming winter--were slung over the barrel of his gun. Old
Whipple was raving.

“Don’t none o’ you guys think this old Injun tracker was slow in gittin’
to the strikes up here?” he shouted to the solemn-faced engineer. “I was
gen’rally before the first stakin’s was done. And, gentlemen, I allus
pulled a blank. Nome? Say, in Nome, the gold was all around me, first on
the beach and then out on old Dexter--a fraction, that was, all around
me, boys--an’ mine, both of ’em, didn’t have a color!”

He seemed to doze for a while; but when McAdams roused him to take the
ptarmigan broth, he glared crazily into the battered tin bowl and wagged
his head refusingly.

“Looks yaller,” he muttered. “B’iled-up gold, I reckon. Not fer me. I
git mine in a pan or a sluice box. That ain’t nothin’ but tundra water.
Yaller. All over Alaska. Some folks think it’s gold--dissolved out by
the grass roots. Gold at the grass roots! That’s it. That’s what they
promised us when we come North. ‘Land o’ wealth untold--grave that’s
decked with gold--’”

It was impossible to quiet him. Turner’s dignified gentleness, when old
Whipple’s ravings disturbed his reading, was as unavailing as McAdams’
rough admonishings, which turned, finally, into severity. “Shut up and
go to sleep, you!” It was the only way he knew of impressing the
wandering mind of the old frontiersman, but it was inexpressibly
shocking to Alfred Turner, of finer mold. He glared at McAdams
balefully. McAdams only laughed.

“Always been knockin’ the country, sence I’ve known him,” he remarked to
the engineer, as they sprawled on their blankets, a single fluttering
candle between them. “Baptized Enoch, he was; and you kin figger what a
grand chance that name gave the boys up here to nickname him. They jest
left off the ‘e,’ that’s all. Oh, well, everybody knocks things and
places when the luck is all agin’ ’em. But old Whipple’s always had it
wuss than anybody I ever seen up here. Hey there!” he bawled, when the
sick man began singing again. “I’ll tie you down, you old rascal, if you
don’t lay quiet!”

“You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Mac,” protested Turner hotly. “It
doesn’t do any good. Let him die happy!”

“_Does_ do good,” insisted McAdams. “Slinks down, more or less, whenever
I holler at him. You got an easy way of killin’ him off? Why ain’t he
got a chance? Fever’s passin’, mebbe. He’s a tough old bird. Keep him
quiet, _I_ say!”

But neither Turner’s melancholy advice to the passing one nor the
gruff-voiced commands of McAdams availed to stay the torrent of
delirium. Only death stilled the weakly raucous voice. And his last
words came in a kind of gasping chant, in high, thin falsetto:

    “In a grave that’s decked with g-o-l-d,
    He’s sleeping _i-n_ the Klondike Vale to-night!”

Turner made considerable ado over laying out old Whipple in seemly
guise, fussing about in the tent; while Aleck McAdams took upon himself
the grilling task of digging a grave in the hard and rocky soil. The
late night was a poor time, and the man was tired. But the two had
agreed that an early get-away from that inhospitable barren land was
imperative, and McAdams groped about for a nook that offered soil enough
for a proper grave, deep beyond the fierce pawings of slinking creatures
of the wild. In an angle of the creek bed, yet higher than the marks of
the spring freshets, he found such a place, and with a light pick and
short-handled shovel, McAdams went doggedly to work.

When he reentered the tent, admitting thereto a first faint light of
dawn, he found his remaining companion smoothing off a flattened slab of
wood.

“For an epitaph for the poor old fellow,” explained Turner, fumbling in
his coat for his fountain pen.

“I know,” nodded McAdams, mopping his face with a grimy bandanna
handkerchief. “In a grave that’s decked with gold, he’s sleepin’ in the
Klondike Vale to-night! Fine!”

Turner gave a grunt of disgust.

“Doggerel. The word ‘wealth,’ if you quote the whole verse, is repeated
twice. I suppose in the correct version it isn’t, but it’s rotten poetry
to stick up on a grave, even in the wilderness.”

McAdams looked wistfully at the slab. “Still,” he urged, “it was the old
man’s fav’rite joke--knockin’ the gold up here. And that ridic’lous
‘grave that’s decked with gold’--he allus split his sides laughin’ at
that. Old man was some joker in his time, too. I been with him off and
on a number of years.”

“Death and graves are solemn matters, McAdams,” replied Turner
pettishly. “As I’ve had occasion to remark before. Mac, you’ve simply
got no sentiment. The man was your friend. We’ll give him what decent
burial we can, and mark his last resting place with something a little
more fitting in the way of verse than that maudlin dance-hall stuff!”

“What’ll it be?” asked McAdams, abashed.

“I had thought of an epitaph, or a verse, rather, from the tomb of the
immortal bard, Shakespeare. It’s a bit highbrow, perhaps, for poor old
Whipple. It may protect the mound, though. Even you old sourdoughs are
sometimes superstitious.”

McAdams leaned down, his hard hands resting on his clay-slippery
overalls, and watched Turner as he printed slowly, beneath the name and
date, the words:

    Good friend, for Jesus’ sake, forbear
    To dig the dust inclosed here;
    Blest be the man that spares these stones,
    And cursed be he that moves my bones.

“It ain’t the kind o’ langwage old Nock Whipple savvied,” commented
McAdams soberly. “But I get the idee.”

He extinguished the candle with his heavy palm--thriftily.

“Now give me a hand, here----”

By the time McAdams had shoveled back all the gravel and smoothed the
oval surface, Turner had ornately rounded the wooden slab and pointed
its end. A few strokes with the back of the shovel and the little
monument was driven to its place at the head of the grave underneath the
high bank. Alfred Lawrence Turner murmured a brief prayer and dropped a
silent tear.

It was barely light when they made up the packs, and McAdams brought in
the shivering mules and saddled them. Their four companions trudged,
single file, down the meandering stream bed, where five had come.

Turner clapped his hand to the breast pocket of his coat.

“Wait, Mac! I must have left my fountain pen where the tent was. I’ll go
back after it.”

“Take you half an hour,” demurred McAdams, squinting at the rising sun.
“We got some job getting outer this part of the world--on half rations.”

“Got to have the pen, you know!” Turner walked briskly away.

The little black tube was nowhere to be found among the tramped boughs
that marked the site of the tent. Suddenly Turner remembered that he had
used the pen last in making a decorative box around the epitaph. At the
grave he found the pen--and also something else. The risen sun drew
glintings from the fresh-turned gravel. He was amazed. He dug about with
his fingers. A little nugget; a larger one; specks of fine gold and
coarse. He ran down the creek and found an impatient McAdams feeding
choice bits of bunch grass to the gaunt mules.

“Most wonderful thing! Where we camped last night----”

“Well, by heck! what d’ye know about that?” exclaimed McAdams, when the
mining engineer had told him. The “pardner” of unlucky Enoch Whipple
forgot about half rations, for the time being, and turned the mules
back. In ten minutes the two prospectors were sizing up the vicinity of
the last resting place of the old Montana scout.

The result was amazing--and disappointing. McAdams, in the dark, had
come upon the only deposit of gravel. It was a pothole shielded by the
angular, overhanging rim rock of the creek channel from the denuding
forces of erosion that elsewhere had swept the highlands clean of all
its old deposits. It had been known as a “pockety” country, as old
Whipple had told them. Hereabouts there was one pocket. All that was
mortal of Enoch Whipple rested there. The mining engineer and the old
sour dough returned to the gold-flecked grave.

Alfred Lawrence Turner’s mouth twitched. He lit one of the last of his
cigarettes.

“We won’t find as easy a place for a new grave,” he remarked
thoughtfully. “But we’ll not need a new one. After we’ve washed the
gravel--cleaned out this pothole completely--why, we can reinter the
body and cover it with the tailings. Make it look just as it did----”

McAdams gasped.

“What d’yer mean? Dig him up again? You’re joking!”

Turner laughed uncomfortably. “Of course, if it had been lighter, we’d
have seen that this was pay dirt. And naturally we’d have washed it out.
Just because it was too dark to see----”

“But we _buried_ him!” exclaimed Aleck McAdams. “This ain’t no placer
dump. This is a grave. Grave of my old pal. What the devil are we? Body
snatchers? Ghouls?”

“I’d hardly thought it of _you_!” Turner replied, reddening. “About as
unsentimental a devil as I ever saw.”

“Yeah, you told me I ain’t got no sentiment. What have _you_ got?”

Turner frowned and bit his lip.

“There’s a difference between sentiment and sentimentality. The
former--sentiment--is a mighty good thing to use on living people. I
didn’t roar at him and jerk the covers over his shoulders as if he was a
horse, but he’s dead now--clay. It’s the most puerile sentimentality to
talk about the sacredness of a mere grave.”

“Oh, it is hey? Well, I admit I don’t know the difference between the
sentiment and the ‘tality’ you stick on it. But I do know I was riz
decent, and I know what the homefolks think about graves and graveyards.
Why, man, look what you wrote yourself!”

With a stubby finger Aleck McAdams pointed closely to the verse of the
epitaph. Painfully squinting, he read out the words:

“‘Blest be the man that spares these stones, and cursed be he that moves
my bones.’ Hey, you don’t want to be cussed, do yer? Cussed for life fer
a grave-snatching ghoul? Your own pal, at that? Poor old Nock!”

Alfred Turner’s eyes were averted. He smoked the last half of his
cigarette in three long puffs and tossed the stub away with a determined
gesture. He was as big, as quick and as strong as McAdams, and younger
by fifteen years. However, he would try his wit first. He scooped a
handful of the rich pay dirt.

“Do you realize, McAdams, what we have here? Not a dozen buckets of
gravel, probably. A couple of hundred pans at the most, and perhaps as
much more that you didn’t disturb in digging the hole.”

“Hole, is it? Just a hole! Sentimental, you are, fer a fact!”

“Just wait a minute. You’re a placer miner. You know what gravel goes to
the pan when you can see the gold in it--pick out nuggets with your
fingers! There’s five, six, seven thousand dollars in this pothole, this
pocket, just as sure as the world. _I_ need the money--need it bad, if
you don’t. You’re broke, ain’t you?”

“What’s that got to do with it?” demanded McAdams.

Turner studied him. Was it affectation? No, the fellow looked frankly
bewildered at the question. Was it cupidity? Did he intend later to
return and take it all?

“It’s all right, this sentimentality--for that’s what it is--mere
mawkish sentimentality. If you can afford it! Why we’d be just plain
fools if we went off without it!”

McAdams had recourse to the grimy bandanna. He mopped his brow.

“Any man can work,” he answered doggedly. “He don’t have ter rob graves.
I ain’t superstitious, Turner. But it’s durn funny old Whipple dies with
them words on his lips: ‘In a grave that’s decked with gold.’ An’ here
he is in a grave full of it. If there’s anything in sperits, maybe the
old man’s hovering around and laughin’ to beat the dickens. Struck it at
last--when it can’t do him no good!”

“It’s an excellent joke, no doubt,” returned the engineer unsmilingly.
“But the real joke would be on us if we left thousands of dollars--after
all the hardships we’ve gone through this summer. Left it for the next
couple of prospectors to wash up and put it in their buckskin pokes. No,
sir!”

McAdams scowlingly flipped his thumb at the epitaph.

“Didn’t you write that there po’try to skeer the next man off from
tamperin’ with the grave? Maybe the next guy, even if he ain’t got the
decency of a pig to let a grave alone, will be scairt out by the curse.”

“Oh, of course,” returned the engineer, ironically. ‘Prospectors are
that way. Men that have got the nerve to take their lives in their hands
in a wilderness like this--they’re going to be scared off by a verse
they can’t even understand. With gold glittering under their hands. Why
not advertise it? Write the other verse under it--tell ’em it’s a grave
that’s decked with gold, for fear it’s a cloudy day when they pass by
and they don’t catch a gleam in the dirt. Sure, let them have it!”

“You’re gittin’ sarcastic, now, ain’t you? Well, you kin, if you like.”
McAdams folded his arms. His jaw was set. “This man Whipple didn’t
amount to much in this country, so fur as success goes, though he always
stood fer law and order. But old-timers that knew him tell me he’s been
some punkins back in the States in early days. One of the best Injun
fighters in the West, and known and trusted by the gov’ment men that
come after Custer. If he was back in Montana, now, the old-timers’d
plant him proper and give him a headstone with what he done cut on it,
’stead of a moldy old poem from this feller Shakespeare. Just because he
cashes in away up here a thousand miles from nowheres is no reason why
we oughter treat him like a dead animal. No, siree! Not by a darn
sight.”

“Do as you damn please!” barked Turner, enraged. “Help me, or I’ll take
it all!”

He stripped off his coat and walked to the pack mule that bore the
short-handled shovel, thrust under the lashing. When he turned he looked
into the muzzle of a revolver.

“You’ll take it all!” echoed Aleck McAdams.

“Every one of the five chambers if you tech this grave. You won’t listen
ta reason. You’ll listen to _this_, if it talks!”

Turner went white.

“Partners, heh! This is the way you treat a partner because he don’t
agree with you!”

“Yeh, this is the way I treat pardners. I got more respeck fur a dead
pardner than I have fur some live ones I could mention. You kin cut off
the slack of that lash rope there and tie your own hands. I’ll make a
better job of it when you’re through.”

Aleck McAdams seemed to have had some experience in manhandling. He
pocketed the revolver and tied his living partner securely and set him
on a rock nearby, ignoring Turner’s threats and protestations. He got
out the pick and pried loose many flat slabs of shale rock on the other
side of the creek. These he carried to the grave and set them neatly
upon the dirt mound, edge to edge, so that none of the gravel of the
pothole remained in evidence to excite the cupidity of a passing
prospector--a remote chance in that far land, yet one to be guarded
against.

With his jackknife McAdams scraped away the verse and wrote instead,
underneath the name and date:

                      A GOOD OLD SCOUT

He replaced the pick and shovel in the pack. Then he tethered the mining
engineer to one of the mules by a ten-foot rope, and tied the red
bandanna over Turner’s eyes so that he could see only the ground.

“What’s this unnecessary insult for?” inquired the man who vainly sought
to illustrate the distinction between sentiment and sentimentality.

“You’re too durn handy with that there notebook of yours,” replied
McAdams. “It’s a twisty country, yet with the help of sketchin’s I
reckon you could sneak back here some day an’ rob the grave. I aim to
put the kibosh on that!”


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the September 7, 1927 issue
of The Popular Magazine.]







*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A GOOD OLD SCOUT ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


